Add TextCat recipes (#54)
explosion/prodigy-openai-recipes: README.md

The resulting model will be saved to the `hf-ner-model/` directory.

> ## `textcat.openai.correct`: Textcat annotation with zero- or few-shot learning

Reviewer: Bit of a nitpick, but could we maybe add a screenshot of the user interface?

Author: Not a nitpick! Updated the PR to add images :)

| `--examples-path`, `-e`     | Path | Path to examples to help define the task. The file can be a .yml, .yaml or .json. If set to `None`, zero-shot learning is applied.              | `None`                              |
| `--max-examples`, `-n`      | int  | Max number of examples to include in the prompt to OpenAI. If set to 0, zero-shot learning is always applied, even when examples are available. | 2                                   |
| `--batch-size`, `-b`        | int  | Batch size of queries to send to the OpenAI API.                                                                                                | 10                                  |
| `--exclusive-classes`, `-E` | bool | Flag to make the classification task exclusive.                                                                                                 | `False`                             |
| `--verbose`, `-v`           | bool | Flag to print extra information to the terminal.                                                                                                | `False`                             |

> ### Example usage

Reviewer 2: I'd add subsections for Binary classification and Multiclass classification inside the Example usage section.

    --examples-path ./examples/textcat_binary.yaml -n 2 \
    -F ./recipes/openai_textcat.py
```

Similar to the NER recipe, this recipe also converts the predictions into an 
annotation task that can be rendered with Prodigy. For binary classification, we
use the [`classification`](https://prodi.gy/docs/api-interfaces#classification)
interface with custom HTML elements, while for multilabel or multiclass text
categorization, we use the
[`choice`](https://prodi.gy/docs/api-interfaces#choice) annotation interface.
Notice that we include the original prompt and ChatGPT's response in the UI. 

Lastly, you can use the `--verbose` or `-v` flag to show the exact prompt and
response on the terminal. Note that because the requests to the API are batched,
you might have to scroll back a bit to find the current prompt.

## `textcat.openai.fetch`: Fetch text categorization examples up-front

The `textcat.openai.fetch` recipe allows us to fetch a large batch of examples
upfront. This is helpful when you are with a highly-imbalanced data and interested
only in rare examples.

```bash
python -m prodigy textcat.openai.fetch input_data.jsonl predictions.jsonl \
    --labels Recipe \

>     -F ./recipes/ner.py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -F ./recipes/openai_textcat.py
```

[`textcat.manual`](https://prodi.gy/docs/recipes#textcat-manual) recipe.

Note that the OpenAI API might return "429 Too Many Request" errors when
requesting too much data at once - in this case it's best to ensure you only
request 100 or so examples at a time and take a look at the [API's rate
limits](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/5955598-is-api-usage-subject-to-any-rate-limits).

### Working with imbalanced data

The `textcat.openai.fetch` recipe is suitable for working with datasets where
there is severe class imbalance. Usually, you'd want to find examples of the
rare class rather than annotating a random sample. From there, you want to
upsample them to train a decent model and so on.

As it turns out, **large language models (LLMs) are effective at finding the
rare class.** Using the [Reddit r/cooking dataset](data), we prompted ChatGPT to
look for comments that resemble a food recipe. Instead of annotating 10,000
examples, we ran `textcat.openai.fetch` and obtained 145 positive classes. Out
of those 145 examples, 114 turned out to be true positives (79% precision). We
then checked 1,000 negative examples and found 12 false negative cases (98%
recall). 

> Ideally, once we fully annotated the dataset, we can train a supervised model

Reviewer 2: Should we provide instructions on how to train (similar to  the NER section above?)

Author: Sure!

that is better to use than relying on zero-shot predictions for production. The

> running cost is low and it's easier to manage.

Author: Added a note here on how the `textcat.openai.fetch` recipe is a good way to work with imbalanced data.

## What's next?

> There’s lots of interesting follow-up experiments to this, and lots of ways to adapt the basic idea to different tasks or data sets. We’ll definitely follow up with a similar recipe for text categorization, but you can also adapt the recipe yourself in the meantime. We’re also interested to try out different prompts. It’s unclear how much the format the annotations are requested in might change the model’s predictions, or whether there’s a shorter prompt that might perform just as well. We also want to run some end-to-end experiments.

Reviewer 2: We should update the sentence that says " we'll definitely follow up with a similar recipe for text categorization" as this is already done with this PR.

The resulting model will be saved to the `hf-ner-model/` directory.

> ## `textcat.openai.correct`: Textcat annotation with zero- or few-shot learning

Reviewer: As of [April last year](https://github.com/explosion/prodigy-openai-recipes/pull/54) Github can generate a table of contents for a README. 

Given the amount of recipes, we can start thinking about a hierarchy here. Maybe on a high level have NER/TEXTCAT? 

![CleanShot 2023-01-31 at 10 17 04](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1019791/215719263-02c44b3a-3fb8-4717-b0de-4a6a2ba85d54.png)

We can also choose to list our own table of contents on the readme itself. This might make sense as this document is pretty long now.

Reviewer 2: I like that idea too. There are not nearly as many recipes as in prodigy-recipes repo, but it would help the navigation for sure.

Author: That definitely sounds good!

| `file_path`                 | Path | Path to `.jsonl` data to annotate. The data should at least contain a `"text"` field.                                                           |                                     |
| `labels`                    | str  | Comma-separated list defining the text categorization labels the model should predict.                                                          |                                     |
| `--lang`, `-l`              | str  | Language of the input data - will be used to obtain a relevant tokenizer.                                                                       | `"en"`                              |
| `--segment`, `-S`           | bool | Flag to set when examples should be split into sentences. By default, the full input article is shown.                                          | `False`                             |
| `--model`, `-m`             | str  | GPT-3 model to use for initial predictions.                                                                                                     | `"text-davinci-003"`                |

> | `--prompt_path`, `-p`       | Path | Path to the `.jinja2` [prompt template](templates).                                                                                             | `./templates/textcat_prompt.jinja2` |

Reviewer: Should probably be `--prompt-path` instead. 
```suggestion
| `--prompt-path`, `-p`       | Path | Path to the `.jinja2` [prompt template](templates).                                                                                             | `./templates/textcat_prompt.jinja2` |
```

categorization. You can set this by passing the appropriate number of labels in
the `--labels` parameter; for example, passing a single label turns it into
binary classification and so on. We will talk about each one in the proceeding
sections.

#### Binary text categorization

Suppose we want to know if a particular Reddit comment talks about a food
recipe.  We'll send the text to GPT-3 and provide a prompt that instructs the
predictions we want. 

```
From the text below, determine wheter or not it contains a recipe. If it is a 
recipe, answer "accept." If it is not a recipe, answer "reject."

Your answer should only be in the following format:
answer: <string>
reason: <string>

Text:
```

For binary classification, we want GPT-3 to return "accept" if a given text is a
food recipe and "reject" otherwise. GPT-3's suggestion is then displayed
prominently in the UI. We can press the <kbd>ACCEPT</kbd> (check mark) button to
include the text as a positive example or press the <kbd>REJECT</kbd> (cross
mark) button if it is a negative example.

```sh
python -m prodigy textcat.openai.correct my_textcat_data data/reddit_r_cooking_sample.jsonl \
    --labels recipe \

>     --verbose \

Reviewer: Users are going to run this on their first "go". Do we really want to have them run in `--verbose` mode in their first try? 

Maybe. But in that case it'd be nice to add a sentence to explain the flag.

Reviewer: Minor thing, but it took a while before this recipe gave me an example that's actually about a recipe. Could we maybe add this example to the top of the examples file? 

```
1/2 cup butter, 1 cup parm, and 1/2 cup heavy cream. Optionally put a half clove of minced garlic in the butter.
```

It took 18 examples before I saw my first "positive" example.

```
Classify the text below to any of the following labels: recipe, feedback, question.
The task is exclusive, so only choose one label from what I provided.

Your answer should only be in the following format:
answer: <string>
reason: <string>

Text:
```

Then, we can use this recipe to handle multilabel and multiclass cases by
passing the three labels to the `--labels` parameter. We should also set the
`--exclusive-classes` flag to render a single-choice UI:

```sh
python -m prodigy textcat.openai.correct my_textcat_data data/reddit_r_cooking_sample.jsonl \
    --labels recipe,feedback,question \
    --verbose \
    --exclusive-classes \
    -F recipes/openai_textcat.py
```

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12949683/214230269-bdacbbc8-8edc-4be5-8334-0b7eaf4712e0.png" width="600" />

#### Writing templates

We write these prompts as a .jinja2 template that can also take in examples for
few-shot learning. You can create your own [template](templates) and provide it
to the recipe with the `--prompt-path` or `-p` option.  Additionally, with
`--examples-path` or `-e` you can set the file path of a .y(a)ml or .json file
that contains additional examples:

```bash

> python -m prodigy textcat.openai.correct my_textcat_data \

Reviewer: Maybe use a different name for a dataset here? The binary example already uses `my_textcat_data`, it'd probably be best that single-label and multi-label annotations have their own dataset.

    ./data/reddit_r_cooking_sample.jsonl \
    --labels recipe \
    --prompt-path ./templates/textcat_prompt.jinja2 \
    --examples-path ./examples/textcat_binary.yaml -n 2 \
    -F ./recipes/openai_textcat.py
```

Similar to the NER recipe, this recipe also converts the predictions into an 
annotation task that can be rendered with Prodigy. For binary classification, we
use the [`classification`](https://prodi.gy/docs/api-interfaces#classification)
interface with custom HTML elements, while for multilabel or multiclass text
categorization, we use the
[`choice`](https://prodi.gy/docs/api-interfaces#choice) annotation interface.
Notice that we include the original prompt and ChatGPT's response in the UI. 

Lastly, you can use the `--verbose` or `-v` flag to show the exact prompt and
response on the terminal. Note that because the requests to the API are batched,
you might have to scroll back a bit to find the current prompt.

> 

Reviewer: Nitpick, but maybe after labelling some examples we can mention that you can train a model? 

```bash
# Depending on the setting, either one of these?

# If multi-class
python -m prodigy train --textcat my_textcat_data

# If multi-label
python -m prodigy train --textcat-multilabel my_textcat_data
```

## `textcat.openai.fetch`: Fetch text categorization examples up-front

The `textcat.openai.fetch` recipe allows us to fetch a large batch of examples
upfront. This is helpful when you are with a highly-imbalanced data and interested
only in rare examples.

```bash
python -m prodigy textcat.openai.fetch input_data.jsonl predictions.jsonl \
    --labels Recipe \
    -F ./recipes/openai_textcat.py
```

This will create a `predictions.jsonl` file that can be loaded with the
[`textcat.manual`](https://prodi.gy/docs/recipes#textcat-manual) recipe.

Note that the OpenAI API might return "429 Too Many Request" errors when
requesting too much data at once - in this case it's best to ensure you only
request 100 or so examples at a time and take a look at the [API's rate
limits](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/5955598-is-api-usage-subject-to-any-rate-limits).

### Working with imbalanced data

The `textcat.openai.fetch` recipe is suitable for working with datasets where
there is severe class imbalance. Usually, you'd want to find examples of the
rare class rather than annotating a random sample. From there, you want to
upsample them to train a decent model and so on.

> As it turns out, **large language models (LLMs) are effective at finding the
> rare class.** Using the [Reddit r/cooking dataset](data), we prompted ChatGPT to

Reviewer: Given the amount of effort it can take to get OpenAI to do that you want, it might better to tone down this claim a bit. 

Maybe this? 

```suggestion
This is where large language models like OpenAI might help.
Using the [Reddit r/cooking dataset](data), we prompted ChatGPT to
```

python -m prodigy db-out my_textcat_data  > textcat_data.jsonl
```

The format of the exported annotations contains all the data you need to train a
smaller model downstream. Each example in the dataset contains the original
text, the tokens, span annotations denoting the entities, etc.

You can also export the data to spaCy's [binary
format](https://spacy.io/api/data-formats#training), using
[`data-to-spacy`](https://prodi.gy/docs/recipes#data-to-spacy). This format lets
you load in the annotations as spaCy `Doc` objects, which can be convenient for
further conversion. The `data-to-spacy` command also makes it easy to train a
text categorization model with spaCy. First you export the data, specifying the
train data as 20% of the total:

```bash
# For binary textcat
python -m prodigy data-to-spacy ./data/annotations/ --textcat my_textcat_data -es 0.2
# For multilabel textcat
python -m prodigy data-to-spacy ./data/annotations/ --textcat-multilabel my_textcat_data -es 0.2
```
Then you can train a model with spaCy:

```bash
python -m spacy train ./data/annotations/config.cfg --paths.train ./data/annotations/train.spacy --paths.dev ./data/annotations/dev.spacy -o textcat-model
```

> This will save a model to the `textcat-model/` directory.

Reviewer: Good section to add! One thing though; is there a reason why you didn't mention the `prodigy train` command?

Author: Ah good question! I followed the NER example here for consistency. I'll probably mention prodigy train as well.
